Revise the Roborock integration documentation (#45761)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/roborock.markdown

devices. For example, you could send a notification when the vacuum is stuck, or
pause the vacuum when a media player starts playing music.

> ## Supported Devices

Reviewer: Use sentence case for headings: https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide/#headings

```suggestion
## Supported devices
```

This integration communicates with devices paired to the official Roborock app. While it was originally developed for robot vacuums, it also supports other smart home appliances in the Roborock ecosystem. 

> ### Robot Vacuums (Local Polling with Cloud Fallback)

Reviewer: Use sentence case + add a blank line below:

```suggestion
### Robot vacuums (local polling with cloud fallback)

```

> ### Robot vacuums (local polling with cloud fallback)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Robot vacuums (local polling with cloud fallback)

```

> Most robotic vacuums utilize a hybrid communication model. Home Assistant uses local communication for commands and polling but relies on the cloud for setup and fallback control.

Reviewer: Simplify: `utilize` -> `use`

```suggestion
Most robotic vacuums use a hybrid communication model. Home Assistant uses local communication for commands and polling but relies on the cloud for setup and fallback control.
```

> - **S, QV, Qrevo, and Saros series:** Fully supported 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **S, QV, Qrevo, and Saros series:** Fully supported.
```

- **Q-Series:** Compatibility varies. While many Q-series models are supported, newer variants may have a different protocol that may fail to connect properly. If your model is unsupported, it may feature partial local control using the native [Matter](/integrations/matter/) integration.

> ### Non-vacuum appliances (cloud-dependent)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Non-vacuum appliances (cloud-dependent)

```

> - **[Q-Series](https://us.roborock.com/collections/robot-vacuums?sort_by=manual&filter.p.m.custom.product_series=Roborock+Q7+Series&filter.p.m.custom.product_series=Roborock+Q10+Series&filter.v.price.gte=0&filter.v.price.lte=1700):** Compatibility varies. While many Q-series models are supported, newer variants may have a different protocol that may fail to connect properly. If your model is unsupported, it may feature partial local control using the native [Matter](/integrations/matter/) integration.

Reviewer: Let's drop the catalog links so we don't have to maintain them:

```suggestion
- **S, QV, Qrevo, and Saros series:** Fully supported 
- **Q-Series:** Compatibility varies. While many Q-series models are supported, newer variants may have a different protocol that may fail to connect properly. If your model is unsupported, it may feature partial local control using the native [Matter](/integrations/matter/) integration.
```

> ### Non-Vacuum Appliances (Cloud Dependent)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Non-vacuum appliances (cloud-dependent)

```

> Non-vacuum products paired with the Roborock app communicate strictly via an outbound MQTT connection. These devices do **not** support local communication with Home Assistant and are entirely cloud-dependent:

Reviewer: Simplify: refactor the Latinism:

```suggestion
Non-vacuum products paired with the Roborock app communicate strictly by using an outbound MQTT connection. These devices do **not** support local communication with Home Assistant and are entirely cloud-dependent:
```

- **[Roborock Wet/Dry Vacuums (Dyad Series)](https://us.roborock.com/collections/wet-dry-vacuums):** Currently exposes a select number of telemetry and cleaning sensors.

> - **Roborock Zeo One (Smart Washer/Dryer):** Exposes cycle states, remaining times, and specific appliance entities.

Reviewer: Let's drop the link + use sentence case for regular words:

```suggestion
- **Roborock wet/dry vacuums (Dyad Series):** Currently exposes a select number of telemetry and cleaning sensors.
- **Roborock Zeo One (smart washer/dryer):** Exposes cycle states, remaining times, and specific appliance entities.
```

  - **Description**: Get maps for a specific device
  - **Optional**: No.

> This will return the name of the map, and the room names and id numbers.

Reviewer: While we're editing this, let's make it use present tense:

```suggestion
This returns the name of the map, and the room names and ID numbers.
```

No. This integration requires information from your Roborock app to set up and uses Roborock's protocols to communicate with your device. You must have your vacuum synced to the Roborock app.

### Can I block internet access for this device?

> As of right now - no. When the vacuum is disconnected from the internet, it will block its local API until it can reach the Roborock servers. However when connected via Matter, the vacuum can work fully offline, but the controls and sensors are limited.

Reviewer: Add comma, blank line, and refactor Latinism:

```suggestion

As of right now - no. When the vacuum is disconnected from the internet, it will block its local API until it can reach the Roborock servers. However, when connected by using Matter, the vacuum can work fully offline, but the controls and sensors are limited.
```

### What devices are supported?
If you can add your device to the Roborock app - it is supported. However, some older vacuums like the Roborock S5 must be connected using the Mi Home app and can be set up in Home Assistant through the [Xiaomi Miio](/integrations/xiaomi_miio/) integration.

### What features will you support?
We are working on adding a lot of features to the core integration. We have reverse-engineered over [100 commands](https://python-roborock.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api_commands.html). The documentation is currently very bare-bones, and we are looking for users to help us make it more complete. The following are some of the functionalities we plan to add to Home Assistant Core. We ask that you are patient with us as we add them.
- Dock controls
- Manual vacuum remote control
- Viewing the camera

> 

Reviewer: ✂️ 

```suggestion
```

### How can I clean a specific room?

1. Go to the vacuum entity of your Roborock device
2. Click the gear icon button
3. Click "Map vacuum segments to areas"
4. Map the Roborock areas to your Home Assistant areas and click save
5. Go back to the vacuum entity and click the cleaning by area button

> 6. Select your areas and click clean

Reviewer: - Add punctuation
- Use "select" to also cover touch-based devices
- Use bold for UI elements https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide/#ui-elements-and-steps

(I haven't verified these steps myself)

```suggestion
1. Go to the vacuum entity of your Roborock device.
2. Select the gear icon button.
3. Select **Map vacuum segments to areas**.
4. Map the Roborock areas to your Home Assistant areas and select **Save**.
5. Go back to the vacuum entity and select **Cleaning by area**.
6. Select your areas and select **Clean**.
```

> Do note that Roborock vacuums do not support cleaning in a specific room order.

Reviewer: Let's use a note box for this note: https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide/#text-boxes

```suggestion
{% note %}
Roborock vacuums do not support cleaning in a specific room order.
{% endnote %}
```

No. This integration requires information from your Roborock app to set up and uses Roborock's protocols to communicate with your device. You must have your vacuum synced to the Roborock app.

### Can I block internet access for this device?

> As of right now - no. When the vacuum is disconnected from the internet, it will block its local API until it can reach the Roborock servers. However, when connected by using Matter, the vacuum can work fully offline, but the controls and sensors are limited.

Reviewer: All the docs are "as of right now", so we can refactor this:

```suggestion
No. When the vacuum is disconnected from the internet, it blocks its local API until it can reach the Roborock servers. However, when connected by using Matter, the vacuum can work fully offline, but the controls and sensors are limited.
```

5. Go back to the vacuum entity and select **Cleaning by area**.
6. Select your areas and select **Clean**.

{% note %}
Roborock vacuums do not support cleaning in a specific room order.
{% endnote %}

## Known limitations

### The vacuum supports polling only

The Roborock integration polls your robot vacuum every 30 seconds with no push-based updates from the vacuum itself. The app also polls the robot vacuum approximately every 2 seconds. This means that push-based updates are not possible. If you want pushed based updates from your robot vacuum you can connect it using Matter, however only a few entities are supported.

### The vacuum requires cloud access

Despite this integration's IoT class being local polling, cloud access is required for it to work just like any other cloud based integration.

### Rate limiting on the cloud API

The Roborock cloud allows a certain number of requests to its cloud, until it decides to ban your IP address. To counter this, there is rate limiting built into the Python package that this integration is built on. This is to try to help prevent your instance from overwhelming the Roborock servers and resulting in any kind of IP ban.

> #### Causes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Causes

```

If your vacuum runs out of battery, hibernates or shutsdown, then Home Assistant may contact the cloud API. If you have a script that automatically reloads the integration if it goes unavailable, then you are frequently reloading and that causes rate limits.

Home Assistant actions like [`get vacuum current position`](#action-get-vacuum-current-position) use the cloud API and may trigger a rate limit if used frequently

> #### Symptoms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Symptoms

```

### The integration tells me no devices were found even though I have devices on my account.

Some devices are not supported yet as they use a different protocol than other devices. Make sure you are on the latest version of Home Assistant.

### When I try to add the integration - it says my region is incorrect

We recommend using the "Auto" setting for your region. If that doesn't work because you have accounts in multiple regions, try the following steps:

1. If you ever accidentally created a Roborock account in the wrong Roborock server region, delete it using the Roborock App.
2. The Roborock server region for your account may not always be associated with your actual country.  While setting up the integration, you may select the Roborock server region that you want to sign in with, with four available options: US, EU, RU, or CN, and you may need to try a different region than the one you expect. Most users outside of Russia or China are in the US and EU Roborock server regions.
3. Please note that the "Region" that is shown in the app is actually the country your account is registered to. It does not always match the region the integration is looking for.

> ## Creative Use Cases and Automations

Reviewer: Let's edit to match current style:

```suggestion
## Roborock integration automations
```

> While the Roborock integration allows for direct control of your vacuum, its true potential is unlocked when connected to the broader Home Assistant ecosystem. Below are examples of how you can automate your vacuum based on your home's state and other smart devices.

Reviewer: We can drop the second sentence:

```suggestion
The Roborock integration allows for direct control of your vacuum, but its true potential is unlocked when connected to the broader Home Assistant ecosystem.
```

> ### Clean Automatically When Leaving the House

Reviewer: Use the standard heading pattern + refactor "automatically":

```suggestion
### Automation: Clean when leaving the house
```

Instead of scheduling your vacuum to run at a fixed time when you might be home or on a work call, you can trigger a full clean automatically the moment your alarm system is armed to "Away."

{% warning %}
Running a robot vacuum while your alarm system is armed can falsely trigger motion sensors (PIRs) and cause accidental alarms. Only use this automation if your motion sensors are pet-immune, positioned out of the vacuum's path, or if you can reliably verify your home's security remotely (e.g., via security cameras) to confirm if a burglary is occurring before emergency services are dispatched.
{% endwarning %}

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Would you mind editing those sections so they follow the current style that starts with listing the UI options and then shows the example YAML?

Here's an example:
- https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/vacuum/
- https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/vacuum.markdown?plain=1#L69

Author: Thanks for the suggestions (all of the suggestions). I appreciate it! I fixed all the problems you showed me and will mark this PR as open.

alias: "Vacuum: Clean when house is empty"
description: "Triggers a full clean when the house alarm is armed to away."
trigger:
  - platform: state
    entity_id: alarm_control_panel.home_alarm
    to: "armed_away"
condition:
  - condition: state
    entity_id: vacuum.roborock_s8
    state: "docked"
action:
  - service: vacuum.start
    target:
      entity_id: vacuum.roborock_s8
mode: single
```

> ### Post-Cooking Kitchen Cleanup

Reviewer: Use sentence case, "Automation:" and add blank lines:

```suggestion

### Automation: Post-cooking kitchen cleanup

```

### When I try to add the integration - it says my region is incorrect

We recommend using the "Auto" setting for your region. If that doesn't work because you have accounts in multiple regions, try the following steps:

1. If you ever accidentally created a Roborock account in the wrong Roborock server region, delete it using the Roborock App.
2. The Roborock server region for your account may not always be associated with your actual country.  While setting up the integration, you may select the Roborock server region that you want to sign in with, with four available options: US, EU, RU, or CN, and you may need to try a different region than the one you expect. Most users outside of Russia or China are in the US and EU Roborock server regions.
3. Please note that the "Region" that is shown in the app is actually the country your account is registered to. It does not always match the region the integration is looking for.

## Roborock integration automations

The Roborock integration allows for direct control of your vacuum, but its true potential is unlocked when connected to the broader Home Assistant ecosystem.

> ### Automation: Clean when leaving the house

Reviewer: Sorry to make you change this again but I forgot we do lowercase after a colon:

```suggestion
### Automation: clean when leaving the house
```

Instead of scheduling your vacuum to run at a fixed time when you might be home or on a work call, you can trigger a full clean automatically the moment your alarm system is armed to "Away."

{% warning %}
Running a robot vacuum while your alarm system is armed can falsely trigger motion sensors (PIRs) and cause accidental alarms. Only use this automation if your motion sensors are pet-immune, positioned out of the vacuum's path, or if you can reliably verify your home's security remotely (e.g., via security cameras) to confirm if a burglary is occurring before emergency services are dispatched.
{% endwarning %}
```yaml
alias: "Vacuum: Clean when house is empty"
description: "Triggers a full clean when the house alarm is armed to away."
trigger:
  - platform: state
    entity_id: alarm_control_panel.home_alarm
    to: "armed_away"
condition:
  - condition: state
    entity_id: vacuum.roborock_s8
    state: "docked"
action:
  - service: vacuum.start
    target:
      entity_id: vacuum.roborock_s8
mode: single
```

> ### Automation: Post-cooking kitchen cleanup

Reviewer: Adjust case too:

```suggestion
### Automation: post-cooking kitchen cleanup

```

### The integration tells me it cannot reach my vacuum and is using the cloud API and that this is not supported or I am having any networking issues

Info about the causes and symptoms of [this issue](#rate-limiting-on-the-cloud-api)

The steps needed to fix this issue are specific to your networking setup. Here are some general troubleshooting steps:

> 1. Ensure your vacuum has outbound access via port 8883 (MQTT) to talk to the cloud servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your vacuum has outbound access via port 8883 (MQTT) to communicate with the cloud servers.
```

2. Ensure your vacuum is allowed to communicate directly with your Home Assistant instance's internal IP address over TCP 58867 and UDP 58866.
3. If you use a network-wide ad or DNS-blockers (such as Pi-hole, AdGuard Home, or NextDNS), ensure that your Roborock vacuum's IP address is entirely exempted from filtering. Overly aggressive ad-blocking lists can inadvertently break the local handshake protocol, forcing Home Assistant to connect to it over the cloud.
4. Roborock vacuums heavily rely on stable local handshakes. It is recommended to log into your router's admin interface and assign a Static IP / DHCP reservation to your vacuum to prevent connection drops when DHCP leases renew.

> 5. Check your router's webpage. If the device is losing connection, you need to focus on increasing your Wi-Fi network's performance. In the Roborock app you can also go to **Settings > Product Info > Wi-Fi Name** and you should see its signal strength, good if you cannot log in your router's webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Check your router's webpage. If the device is losing connection, you need to focus on increasing your Wi-Fi network's performance.
   If you cannot log into your router's webpage, in the Roborock app, go to **Settings** > **Product Info** > **Wi-Fi Name**, and you should see its signal strength.
```

3. Please note that the "Region" that is shown in the app is actually the country your account is registered to. It does not always match the region the integration is looking for.

## Roborock integration automations

The Roborock integration allows for direct control of your vacuum, but its true potential is unlocked when connected to the broader Home Assistant ecosystem.

### Automation: clean when leaving the house

Instead of scheduling your vacuum to run at a fixed time when you might be home or on a work call, you can trigger a full clean automatically the moment your alarm system is armed to "Away."

{% warning %}
Running a robot vacuum while your alarm system is armed can falsely trigger motion sensors (PIRs) and cause accidental alarms. Only use this automation if your motion sensors are pet-immune, positioned out of the vacuum's path, or if you can reliably verify your home's security remotely (e.g., via security cameras) to confirm if a burglary is occurring before emergency services are dispatched.
{% endwarning %}

- **Trigger**: `alarm_control_panel.home_alarm` gets set to `"armed_away"` 
- **Conditions**: `vacuum.roborock_s8` is `"docked"`

> - **Actions**: `vacuum.start` to start the robot vacuum to clean the house while everyone is away

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Trigger**: `alarm_control_panel.home_alarm` gets set to `"armed_away"`.
- **Conditions**: `vacuum.roborock_s8` is `"docked"`.
- **Actions**: `vacuum.start` to start the robot vacuum to clean the house while everyone is away.
```

{% details "YAML example for cleaning the house after the alarm is set to armed away" %}

```yaml
alias: "Vacuum: Clean when house is empty"
description: "Triggers a full clean when the house alarm is armed to away."
trigger:
  - platform: state
    entity_id: alarm_control_panel.home_alarm
    to: "armed_away"
condition:
  - condition: state
    entity_id: vacuum.roborock_s8
    state: "docked"
action:
  - service: vacuum.start
    target:
      entity_id: vacuum.roborock_s8
mode: single
```

{% enddetails %}

> ### Automation: post-cooking kitchen cleanup

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Automation: post-cooking kitchen cleanup
```

Cooking often leaves crumbs or spills near the stove. You can automate your Roborock to head straight to the kitchen to tidy up when your smart stove or oven is turned off.
- **Trigger**: `switch.smart_hob_power` gets switched to `"off"` for a minute
- **Conditions**: `vacuum.roborock_s8` is `"docked"`

> - **Actions**: `vacuum.clean_area` with `cleaning_area_id: kitchen` to start the robot vacuum to clean kitchen after cooking is done

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- **Trigger**: `switch.smart_hob_power` gets switched to `"off"` for a minute.
- **Conditions**: `vacuum.roborock_s8` is `"docked"`.
- **Actions**: `vacuum.clean_area` with `cleaning_area_id: kitchen` to start the robot vacuum to clean kitchen after cooking is done.
```
